Welcome back to Movie Recaps. Today
I will show you an action, Drama,
Thriller film from 2018, titled Red Sparrow.
Spoilers ahead! Watch out and take care.
The story begins by jumping back and forth between
the lives of our two protagonists in Russia.
First, there is Dominika Egorova, a famous
ballerina that is in charge of taking care of her
sick mom. After a visit to the doctor, Dominika
leaves her mother with a caretaker so she can
go to work. Once in the theatre, she changes and
puts on make-up before going to meet the guests,
which include her uncle Ivan Egorov,
Deputy Director of Russian secret service.
He introduces her to Dimitry Ustinov, a Russian
gangster that asks her for a picture and takes
the chance to touch her improperly. Moments
later, the play begins, and Dominika is dancing
as wonderfully as ever when suddenly, his dancing
partner jumps and lands on her leg, breaking it.
Dominika is immediately taken to have surgery.
The other character we follow is Nate Nash,
a CIA agent, who is taking a phone call from an
automatic caller that dictates some words to him.
He uses those words to decode the address of
a meeting location, and he takes his gun with
him before leaving. The chosen spot for the secret
meeting is the park at night, and when he arrives
there, he notices he's being followed by a car.
A mysterious man, codename Marble, is walking
towards him as well, and Nate hands him something
as they cross each other on the road before they
go on as if nothing happened. The car is still
following him, though, so to give the man a chance
to escape, Nate creates a distraction by shooting
the floor and starts running away as the car gives
him chase. He reaches town and is surrounded by
the police just as he makes it to the American
embassy. Inside, he meets with his bosses, who
tell him the asset is safe, but Nate will still
be sent back to the USA for his mistake.
The next day, Ivan visits Colonel Zakharov,
director of the secret service, in his office
- General Vladimir Korchnoi is there as well.
They show Ivan a video of Nate's meeting at the
park and mention he's a CIA agent that left the
country that morning, but their main interest lies
in the other man and finding out his identity.
We cut to Dominika then, who is waking up at
the hospital to find her leg in a metal frame,
she starts crying when she realizes
she won't be able to dance again.
Three months pass. Dominika, who is
still walking with the aid of a cane,
is visited by Ivan. He comments on the fact
a replacement for her has already been found
and how the theatre had been lending them the
apartment and covering her mom's medical expenses,
all that will stop soon now that she doesn't
work for them anymore. Ivan says he wants to
help her and asks her to come to him when she's
ready, he also leaves an envelope for her before
leaving. Dominika opens the envelope and finds
pictures that show her dancing partner has been
romantically involved with her replacement,
plus a recording of a conversation between
them that implies he jumped on her on purpose
so his girlfriend could take Dominika's place.
Later that day, we find Dominika in the
theatre, watching her former partner and
the new girl practice. After they're done, they
go to the steam room and Dominika follows them,
only to find them having relations. Rage takes
over and Dominika starts using her cane to beat
them both to the ground before running away.
On the bus home, she sees her hands stained
with blood and decides to get off, stopping by a
payphone to report what she did as an accident.
When she arrives at her apartment, she finds
her mom on the bathroom floor, the caretaker
nowhere in sight - her mom tells her she didn't
come because the theatre stopped paying her.
Knowing she has no other choice now, Dominika
goes to see her uncle to ask him for help.
He accepts as long as she helps him in return
with a little case: the secret service wants to
know more about Ustinov, whom Dominika had met
at the theatre. Ivan wants her to approach him,
befriend him and gain his trust using her charms.
Dominika at first refuses, but Ivan wins her over
by reminding her how awful state hospitals are and
how he can give her mom the best doctors instead.
That very night, Dominika goes to
the hotel Ustinov is staying in,
wearing the dress she's been given. She goes to
the bar to wait for Ustinov to approach her first,
which he does. Dominika tells him she's come
to see him, wanting to feel special again,
so they leave for her room. She asks the guards to
give them privacy and Ustinov starts undressing as
soon as his men leave the room, then asks Dominika
to do the same. She does so after some hesitation,
and when she comes closer, Ustinov wastes no time
in taking advantage of her. Their intercourse is
suddenly interrupted when a man wearing a black
helmet appears behind Ustinov and cuts his throat.
The body is thrown on the floor and
after asking for silence with a gesture,
the man throws Dominika a coat for her to cover
her blood-stained body and takes her out of the
room through a back door. When they make it to
the parking lot, he shoots an employee before
getting them on his bike and driving away to an
abandoned building. Inside, the man takes off his
helmet to reveal Sergei Matorin, another secret
service agent sent by Ivan, who is in another
room in the same building together with Korchnoi,
watching Dominika on the security cameras. When
Korchnoi mentions she's a witness and she should
be eliminated, Ivan mentions she could be useful.
Ivan changes rooms to go see Dominika, and
confesses he did know what would happen in that
room and didn't tell her because she wouldn't have
done it if she knew. He makes her an offer then:
since she's so good at this, she can be sent to a
special institution to be trained to be an agent.
If she refuses, he won't be able to
protect her, so she can only accept.
Dominika leaves for the institution a couple
of days later. When she arrives there, she's
received by Matron, the Headmistress of Sparrow
School. She gives Dominika a fake name to use in
the school before taking her to her room. Classes
start soon after that - Matron talks about the
modern world being in chaos and how Russia is the
only country willing to make sacrifices to fix it.
The students will be trained to be Sparrows, spies
who specialized in seduction and psychological
manipulation. Dominika and a student named Viktor
are called to the front of the class and asked
to strip, Viktor does so without issues, but
Dominika doesn't dare. Matron scolds her for it.
We then cut to Nate, who's been summoned by
the CIA's discipline panel to be informed
he'll be suspended for his mistake in
Russia and he can't leave the country.
Nate protests because their mole, Marble, has
been working with Nate for three years and
won't trust anybody else, but he isn't heard.
Back in the Sparrow School, during a class
with Matron, she tells them they need to be
able to identify what their targets want.
She puts some videos on tv for examples for them
to work on: the first one Viktor guesses wrong and
Dominika corrects him, earning her his dislike.
The second is guessed by another female student,
who is called to the front of the class and
told she will have to use her mouth on the
man from the video, who is brought into the
classroom in cuffs. The girl gets on her knees
but is incapable of doing it, she falls to the
floor crying. Matron reminds all the students
that they need to learn to trick their bodies
and teaches them some basic seduction tricks.
Back in the USA, Nate notices he's being
tailed and informs his superiors of this.
He learns that the CIA hasn't heard
anything from Marble and he takes
the chance to remind them he will
talk if it's Nate that contacts him.
They reach a deal: he can't still go back to
Russia, but they can send him to a country
nearby so the Russian secret service will
know he's around and Marble will resurface.
Nate accepts for the team to come with him.
Meanwhile, in the school, the students are asked
to give a welcome to a group of soldiers that
just returned home from war. Dominika chooses
a young man and takes him to her room where she
successfully gives him a hand. Later that day,
Matron and the students watch all the videos
of their performances with the soldiers,
Matron tells Dominika her technique was good
but she still hasn't learned to give herself up.
After class is over, Dominika goes to the
showers, where she's assaulted by Viktor.
She defends herself by taking the water
tap from the wall and hitting him with it.
In the meantime, Ivan, Korchnoi and Zakharov
are discussing the fact Nate has been relocated
to Budapest. They want to do something
about it, but they know the president
doesn't want them anything that may come off
as antagonistic against the USA. Ivan proposes
they give the mission to someone else.
Back in the Sparrow School, Matron and a
newly arrived Korchnoi question Dominika for her
attack on Viktor. Matron thinks Dominika still
has potential, Korchnoi asks for a moment alone
with her. After everyone else leaves the room,
he questions Dominika again, and she explains
she owes and serves the state, not her classmate.
She's allowed to go back to class, where Matron
once again calls her to the front while Korchnoi
watches from a security camera. Dominika is shown
a picture of Viktor and asked what he wants as he
enters the room. Matron orders her to give him
what he wants. Viktor asks her to turn around,
Dominika refuses and gets into action: as she
undresses, he tells Viktor to look at only her and
once she's completely naked, she sits on the table
with her legs open, egging him on to take her.
Viktor can't get it up and runs away
when she teases him for it. Then Dominika
answers Matron's question: what he wants is
power. Korchnoi is impressed. Moments later,
Matron meets with Dominika in private again
and tells her she'll be sent back to Moscow.
Days later, while reuniting with her mom at their
place, Dominika receives a call that tells her to
meet Ivan at a restaurant. When she makes it
there, she sits with him and he explains her
next mission: she'll be sent to Budapest to
befriend Nate and gain his trust so she can
learn the identity of their mole. He gives her
a new passport and documents with a new name.
Dominika leaves without eating.
She makes it to Budapest a couple of days later,
and goes to stay at an apartment she'll
share with a fellow Sparrow Marta.
Later that day, she meets with her new boss,
station chief Maxim Volontov, and asks him for
some information on Nate. Afterward, she
follows Nate around to learn his routine.
The next day, Dominika starts going to the
same swimming pool as Nate, and lets him
go to her when they leave the building. They
chitchat a bit but Dominika plays hard to get,
she also makes up a story about being a translator
for the embassy. The following day, however,
she doesn't find Nate at the pool, and the
receptionist tells her her ID has gone missing.
Turns out, Nate already knows she isn't
what she says. We cut to him explaining
to his superiors that she's been using many
names and making the connection to Ivan.
He thinks she's valuable and that her
using her real name is a provocation.
After some hesitation, his superiors allow
him to get closer to her to gather intel.
After going to Volontov to report her progress
and ask for an embassy pass, Dominika visits
the embassy and sees Marta chatting with
Stephanie Boucher, an American politician.
Nate interrupts her staring to chat, admitting
he was the one to steal her ID from the pool,
and asks her out to dinner the next day
at eight. Dominika accepts before leaving.
Back in her apartment, Dominika searches Marta's
room and discovers she's been buying intelligence
from Boucher. Marta returns home then, but doesn't
catch her in the act. She gives Dominika a copy of
the report Volontov sent to Moscow, apparently
Dominika has made an enemy. The next day after
work, she follows Volontov into a bar and
asks him to buy her time with a better report,
then provokes him into punching her by making
fun of his small member. His violence is now on
the security cameras and Dominika tells him he'll
write a better report or she'll take the recording
to the police. While all this is happening, Nate
is alone in a restaurant, waiting for his date.
Thinking he's been stood up, he leaves the
place, but Dominika is following him closely.
Back in his apartment, Nate receives another
coded message on the phone that he quickly
writes down and deciphers: it says Viena.
He's about to leave when a crying Dominika
rings his bell, he allows her to come in.
While sharing some whisky, Dominika tells
him his boss assaulted him. When Nate asks her
how she knows where he lives, she raises the
volume of the tv so they can't be heard. Dominika
asks him what happened in that park in Russia
and kisses him after he tells her. Nate tells
her to go home and figure out what she wants.
The next day, Ivan visits Dominika before leaving
for Viena. He asks about her progress with Nate
since their superiors are getting impatient.
To buy time, she lies and tells him she's also
working with Marta on her Boucher case, but she'll
need more money. Ivan accepts and asks for his
coat to leave, Dominika gets it for him but not
without secretly taking a peek at his passport.
After he's gone, Marta approaches Dominika
with her gun: she overhead the lie and is
angry because the Boucher case is supposed to
be only hers. Dominika promises she'll give
her all the credit and more money, she just
lied for the extra time. Marta only accepts
because she has no other choice. Later on,
Dominika goes to Vienna and opens a bank
account there while Marta visits Volontov to
tell him she knows how to get rid of Dominika.
Dominika returns to her place that night
and finds Marta murdered in the bathtub.
Suddenly, Sergei appears behind her and grabs
her by the neck to pass on a warning: this is
what happens to those that share secrets. He also
tells her to call the police before he disappears.
We cut to Nate there, who is reporting to his
superiors about having met with Marble in Vienna.
Marble has given him some files confirming
Dominika is a Sparrow, and that makes Nate
think she's even more recruitable. Meanwhile,
Dominika is being interrogated by the police,
but she tells them nothing. When she leaves the
precinct, she finds Nate outside waiting for her.
They go back to his place, where he confesses
he knows she's a Sparrow. Dominika tells him
her story in return, putting emphasis on the fact
she only cares about her mother's well-being. Nate
asks her to be a double-agent for him, promising
her protection, she replies she needs to sleep.
He gives her his room. Later in the night, she
leaves the room and joins Nate on the touch.
After asking if she can trust him and getting
a positive answer, she makes love to him.
The next morning, after she confirms she accepts
his deal, Dominika goes back to her routine,
writes a fake report on Nate saying she
has him in her pocket and then returns
to her place to wait for his signal, which is a
simple phone call that plays her favorite song.
Dominika meets with Nate's superiors and is put
through a liar detector test to see if she can be
trusted. When they accept her, she asks for money.
They laugh at her, but they change their minds
when she tells them she can give them Boucher. The
following Friday, the whole team flies to London
to meet with Boucher. Dominika stays in a special
hotel room the CIA prepared for her with security
cameras to monitor her and a set of disks hidden
under a desk to change for the real ones later.
Moments later, while she's at the bar waiting for
Boucher, he's surprised by the sudden appearance
of Volontov who supposedly wants to help.
Dominika sends him to her room, otherwise
his presence will scare Boucher off. Boucher
arrives soon afterward and Dominika goes to her,
explaining Marta sent her. Boucher doesn't like
this change and is about to leave, but Dominika
convinces her to stay when she threatens her with
some dangerous pictures and mentions the money.
Both women go to Dominika's room where Volontov is
waiting. Boucher gives her the disks in exchange
for the money, and Dominika pretends to take the
disks to her computer to check they're real when
she's actually trading them with the CIA's.
Dominika and Volontov leave then after telling
Boucher to wait an hour to leave too, but Boucher
is anxious and drunk so she leaves soon after.
When she makes it to the street, she notices
she's being followed and gets scared, so she
throws the money in a trashcan and crosses the
street where a truck hits and kills her. Dominika
is in a car with Volontov when this happens, and
he quickly gets the news on the phone. He tells
Dominika they've been given orders to return
to Moscow immediately and takes her passport.
When they make it to Moscow, Ivan takes the
disks from Volontov before arresting him.
Both he and Dominika are under suspicion of
having helped the Americans. When asked about it,
she denies it, so she starts being tortured
in different ways for the real answer,
but she doesn't give in. They even show her
a video of how Volontov was shot for lying,
but when the interrogator points at her
head and she lies again, nothing happens.
Ivan takes over then, and Dominika manages to
manipulate him into protecting her. She's allowed
to return home, but when she gets there, she
feels so dirty she doesn't let her mom hug her.
After a difficult meeting with Korchnoi and
Zakharov, Ivan returns to his apartment,
where Dominika is waiting. He tells her
they've granted her request to let her keep
working on Nate, she kisses him before leaving.
Dominika returns to Budapest and meets with Nate.
They go to his apartment, where he expresses
his suspicions of her quick release.
Dominika convinces him to relocate her and her mom
to America and to give her more money, he accepts
before they make love. In the middle of the
night, Dominika wakes up when she hears a noise,
she goes to the kitchen to find Sergei torturing
Nate. She pretends to be on his side at first,
even helping him hurt Nate to get the name
of the mole. But when Sergei gets distracted,
she hits him back and helps Nate cut the straps
tying him to the chair. The three of them get into
a fight that doesn't last long: Sergei slips
and Dominika takes the chance to stab him.
She wakes up in the hospital the next
day, and leaves her room to have a smoke.
She's then approached by Korchnoi,
who reveals himself as Marble.
He thinks he'll be caught soon and doesn't want to
die in vain, so he asks Dominika to expose him so
she can become a national hero and take his place
as a mole. She doesn't give him a definite answer,
but after he leaves, she checks on Nate and leaves
as well. She gives herself up to the police and
asks to see the Russian ambassador, when she's
taken to him, she tells him to call Zakharov and
inform him she has the name of the mole, which
she'll give him in exchange for her freedom.
A meeting to do the exchange is arranged later
that night at an airport. Nate will walk with
her to confirm the identity of the mole and she
mustn't try to run or she'll be shot. Nate is
angry with her because he thinks she's used him,
but she has a surprise: when the Russians approach
them with the mole, they take the bag off his face
to reveal it's not Korchnoi - it's her uncle Ivan,
who has been framed thanks to Dominika fabricating
evidence since she made it to Budapest the first
time. Nate quickly catches on and confirms
Ivan is the mole. After the exchange is done,
Ivan is shot by a Russian sniper and
Dominika is taken away on a helicopter.
Back in Russia, she's named a heroine and
allowed to have a good life with her mom.
The movie ends when she receives a phone call and
the only sound on the line is her favorite song.